My feature (#2039)
Codecademy/docs: content/matplotlib/concepts/pyplot/terms/boxplot/boxplot.md

---

> Title: '.subplots()'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: '.boxplot()'
```

> Description: 'Draws a box and whisker plot.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a box and whisker plot.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Data Visualization'
Tags:
  - 'Graphs'
  - 'Libraries'
  - 'Matplotlib'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.boxplot()`** is a method in the matplotlib library returns a box and whisker plot by taking one or more arrays of data as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.boxplot()`** is a method in the Matplotlib library that returns a box and whisker plot based on one or more arrays of data as input.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
matplotlib.pyplot.boxplot(x, notch, sym, vert, whis, bootstrap, usermedians, conf_intervals, positions, widths, patch_artist, labels, manage_ticks, autorange, meanline, zorder )
```

> The 'x' parameter is required, and represents an array or a sequence of vectors. Other parameters are optional and used to modify the features of the boxplot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `x` parameter is required, and represents an array or a sequence of vectors. Other parameters are optional and used to modify the features of the boxplot.
```

`.boxplot()` takes the following arguments:

- `x` : Takes in the data to be plotted as a list, array, or a sequence of arrays. Each array represents a different dataset to be plotted in the boxplot.

> - `notch`:  If `True`, a notch is drawn around the median to give an idea of the median uncertainty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `notch`:  If `True`, a notch is drawn around the median to represent the median uncertainty.
```

> - `sym`: This parameter is used to specify the symbol to be used to represent outliers. By default, outliers are represented as dots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sym`: A parameter used to modify the designation of outliers. By default outliers are represented as dots, if an empty string is passed any outliers in the data will not be visible in the plot.
```

- `bootstrap`: Specifies whether to bootstrap the confidence intervals around the median for notched boxplots.
- `usermedians`: This parameter is used to pass in a sequence of medians to be used for each dataset.
- `conf_intervals`: If `True`, the confidence intervals around the median are drawn as notches.
- `positions`: This parameter is used to specify the positions of the boxes in the plot.
- `widths`: This parameter is used to specify the width of the boxes.
- `patch_artist`: If `True`, the boxes will be filled with color.
- `labels`: This parameter is used to pass in a list of labels to be used for each dataset.
- `meanline`: If `True`, a line is drawn at the mean value of each dataset.
- `zorder`: This parameter is used to specify the z-order of the plot. By default, the boxplot is drawn on top of other plot elements.

## Examples

Below are the examples demonstrating the use of `.boxplot()`.

```py
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

# Generate some random data
data = [np.random.normal(0, std, 100) for std in range(1, 4)]

# Create a box and whisker plot
plt.boxplot(data)

# Show the plot
plt.show()
```

Output:

> ![Output of matplotlib.pyplot.boxplot() method example 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astro-satyam75/docs/my_feature/media/matplotlib-boxplot-example1-output.png)

Reviewer: The image below doesn't match this example. Please update with the correct file. Also, ideally the plot should be exported at a minimum resolution of 300dpi:
plt.savefig('boxplot_fig', dpi=300)

> ![Output of matplotlib.pyplot.boxplot() method example 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astro-satyam75/docs/my_feature/media/matplotlib-boxplot-example-1.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Output of matplotlib.pyplot.boxplot() method example 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/matplotlib-boxplot-example-1.png)
```

```py
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

# Generate some random data
data = [np.random.normal(0, std, 100) for std in range(1, 4)]

# Create a box and whisker plot with some custom parameters
plt.boxplot(data, notch=True, sym='g+', vert=False, whis=0.75, bootstrap=10000, usermedians=[np.mean(d) for d in data], conf_intervals=None, patch_artist=True)

# Add labels and title
plt.xlabel('Value')
plt.ylabel('Group')
plt.title('Customized box and whisker plot')

# Show the plot
plt.show()
```

Output:

> ![Output of matplotlib.pyplot.boxplot() method example 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astro-satyam75/docs/my_feature/media/matplotlib-boxplot-example-2.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Output of matplotlib.pyplot.boxplot() method example 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/matplotlib-boxplot-example-2.png)
```
